IT 2750 – Scripting Fundamentals for Cybersecurity
Student: Ahmad , Ta’ron Johnson
1. Goals:
This project aims at designing a tool for a cybersecurity-focused Python application that
will execute two common tasks: a password generator and an OSINT-style pattern finder.
First, the password generator will produce secure, randomized passwords in compliance
with strict security requirements. Second, the pattern finder will look through files for
phone numbers and email addresses. The two functions support real-world cybersecurity
workflows, such as strengthening user authentication and collecting conta ct information
during investigations.
The project solves modern problems such as weak passwords, poor password creation by
humans, and the task of having to go through large files manually in search of sensitive
identifying information. This application enhances efficacy by automating most of these
tasks, reduces mistakes, and supports better security hygiene. Our vision for this project is
to build a simple yet powerful command-line tool that will enable users to generate
secured passwords quickly and pull important data out of files.
The application will be well-guided, with easy navigation through the menu and well-
presented output. Enhances current. The utilization of poor password practices causes
many manual processes.
2. User Personas
Persona 1: Alex – Cybersecurity Analyst
Alex works as a small Managed Security Service Provider. He is supposed to assist his
clients in updating their authentication systems among other functions. Most of the time,
he has to make strong passwords for temporary system accounts and interns. He also
reviews logos and files during internal audits. Alex uses his tool to quickly generate secure
passwords and extract emails from suspicious documents during any investigation.
Persona 2: Sarah Thompson – IT Help Desk Technician
Sarah works in a medium-sized company, taking care of employees' onboarding. She has
to create new accounts and is supposed to follow strict password guideness. She also
receives test files from users in regard to phishing emails; she needs to extract the contact
information efficiently. Sarah uses this application because it saves her time and prevents
mistakes during daily tasks.
Persona 3: Lee – Cybersecurity Student
Micheel is attending an introductory course in cybersecurity and was still learning python.
He needed simple, reliable tools to practice the concept of OSINT and to improve his
knowledge regarding secure authentication. Application usage is while studying and
experimenting with different security requirements.
3. User Stories
As a cybersecurity analyst, I want to generate strong passwords so that I can enforce
secure authentication policies.
As a cybersecurity analyst, I want to create strong passwords so that I can set security
authentication policies.
In this regard, I want to scan documents containing phone numbers and emails as an IT
technician to swiftly gather important information related to investigations.
I would like a clear interface as a student so that I can understand how it works, and I could
learn from it.
As a security professional, I want the tool to validate the inputs so I can avoid errors or
crashes when working with large files.
As an end user, I want the tool to return formatted search results so that I can analyze
them easily.
4. Feature Descriptions
Feature 1: Password Generator
This feature can be assessed by a user through the main menu option of “Generate a
Password". "From the main menu, the user selects the option “generate password”, this
tool is helping the user create a string, random password that will include letters,
numbers, and special characters. This tool helps the user avoid weak passwords and
makes it easier for him to follow security rules. The user can input the length they want it to
be. Then, a secure randomly generated password shows up.
Feature 2: OSINT Tool Email and Phone Number Finder
From the main menu, the user chooses to do: Find Emails and Phone Numbers. The tool
reads a file and searches for emails and phone numbers using pattern matching, known as
regrex. It saves time and helps in avoiding mistakes while manually searching within large
documents. All the input is just the file path provided by the user, with the output being a
list of all phone numbers and email addresses present in the file. If no results, it states no
results found.
5. Wireframes / Walkthrough
The application is menu-based, and its core structure is based on a command-line tool.
When running the program, the first thing the user will encounter is the main screen with all
the available options that can be run by the program, using numbers to represent each
option. The layout of the screen is simple and easy to read, thus helping beginners follow it
without confusion.
- Main Menu Experience
After the program is launched, the user is greeted with a title and a list of choices. They can
select from actions such as generating a password or scanning a file for emails and phone
numbers. The user enters the numbers that corresponds to the feature they want to use.
- Password Generator Walkthrough
The first option is the password generator option. It takes them to a specific screen, where
it first explains what the tol does; the user has to type in the length of the password they
want to create and then ask for which character the user wants to choose. After that, the
program will randomly create a password that includes upper and lower case letters,
numbers, and special characters. Then, that result will appear clearly so the user can copy
or save it. After that, the program will take the user back to the main menu.
- Email and Phone Number Finder Walkthrough
Second option the program has is to scan a filre for email addresess and phone numbers,
they’re taken to a new screen that explains what the tool will do. The user is then asked to
enter the file path if the document they want to scan. The program get in to the file and
finds the email addresses and phine numners, then display them in an orgonized list so the
user can easily review the inofrmation. If no resulys are found, the program give the user
clearly staes that nothing was decatred in the file. Once the resukes are shwn the user is
returened automatically to the main menu.
- Return to Main Menu and Exit
The last option the program has is always guide the user back to the main menu. This
allows them to choose another task or exit the program. The exit potion cleanly closes the
application without errors.
6. Non-Functional Requirements
• The menu has to be simple, clear, and user-friendly for beginners. Every option
should contain instructions as to what he/she has to do next.
• Our program menu is simple, clear, and easy for beginners. Each option has
instructions that explain what the user needs to do next.
• Very fast: it responds instantly for small files and remains stable when scanning
large files.
• This program handles the files with trust that no files are shared, missing files, or
unexpected user behavior will never attempt to crash it.
• The passwords the program generates include random characters and meet
minimum security standards.
7. Future Iterations Future versions of this application could
include:
Return results as a text file, to facilitate reporting. More OSINT tools, such as finding IP
addresses or URLs Advanced options for passwords, such as choosing certain characters
or generating multiple options at once. Database storage allows users to save and track all
the generated passwords.
